We are talking about the Fat file
system here in course eight And
in module before we're going to talk
about the file allocation table,
we're going to take a look at
how it works and how we read it.
The facts of the file
allocation table is the call.
What they do is they track cluster
allocation which clusters are in use being
occupied by a file and which clusters are
not in use and available to be written to?
Yeah.
File allocation table has an entry for
every cluster on the volume.
Fat one and fat too should be the same
because Fat too is a backup for
recovery purposes.
If that one becomes corrupted,
they are located in the system
area on all versions of that.
And again, they're used to track
cluster allocation status,
whether the cluster is
being occupied by a file or
it's available to be written
to each of these entries
which represents a cluster
on the drive will give us
the location of the next
cluster of that file here is
kind of a visual example of
what the facts do we have?
Our system area and our fats
are in the system area now out in
the data area we have our files,
we have a file here just written.
And cluster too, cluster two Points to
cluster six where the rest
of this file lives.
So this file is what we call fragmented.
Yeah.
In other words it's not
right next to each other.
Part of it is in cluster too.
And then the other part
of it is in cluster six.
If we look at cluster three,
Cluster three points us to
cluster four and
then we have an end of file marker E o f.
This would be called a contiguous
file Because cluster
three is right next to cluster four.
And then looking at our diagram and
cluster five, we just have an end
of file marker which this tells me that
the file occupying Cluster five only
needs one cluster so it's not big
enough to need more than one cluster.
A fat writes the data to
the first available cluster.
So if we deleted one of these and
wrote a new file it could
go into this empty space.
Now we're going to see Type three
Types of entries in the fat,
you're going to see this marker,
a first offense offense or
less and
that indicates end of file that tells us
we're either at the end
of a cluster chain or
if it's only occupies one cluster
will just see that marker
in the cluster that represents
that file on the draft.
You could see 000000.
And this indicates that
the cluster is not being used,
it's available to be written to or
we'll see a pointer to the next
cluster And down here we can see this
is what a fat table is going to look
like when we view it with our tools.
This F A f f f f Os.
This is what we call a media descriptor
generally indicates fixed disk but
it's what we call a media descriptor.
These next four bites Tell us
the version of Fat one looking at and
since they were all maxed out at ff ff
ff We know we're looking at Fat 32.
Fat 32 has four byte entries.
Fat 12 and 16 Have to bite entries for
each cluster but
we are going to focus on fat 32 because
that's most likely what we'll see today.
So four Byte entries.
These next four bites represent
cluster two because our cluster
numbering out on our drives
is going to start it too.
So this represents cluster too and
it's pointing to would have
to translate that number but
it's pointing to another cost around
in the drive this would be the Filed
clustered 3's representation and
cluster to re has an end of file
marker which means the file that
is occupying cluster three
only takes up one cluster And
we had the four bytes for close to four
and we have an end of file marker.
Cluster five we have
an entire file marker.
Now we look at cluster six Cluster
six points to cluster seven.
If we look at the four bytes that
represent cluster seven in our fat table,
They pointed to cluster eight 9 10.
It just goes you can see this
is a long continuous file.
Yes this is showing us what
we have in our fat tables.
It's the same fat table we looked at
in the previous slide we have our media
descriptor for bites,
then we have our fat type.
Then this The next four bytes
represents cluster too.
And cluster two points
out to cluster 42656.
If we translated and
these are red the Lindy in again,
If we translated 0000 86 Ao
would come up with 42,665.
So that's what cluster to cluster to.
Points to that cluster.
Now if we look at cluster three,
Hesitant to file marker close to 400 and
a file marker five And
then cluster six Points to cluster seven.
We look at the entry for cluster seven It
points to eight Mr eight points to nine.
And this file just goes
on to the very end.
We have clustered 20 down
here Pointing to cluster 21.
So that would be how we
would look at our fat table.
We're going to do a walk through and
take a look at this on disk.
So please attach your NPR Bhd
note that this number of your
attached virtual hard drive so
we can locate it.
And please open up active disk editor for
our walk through.
The first thing we're going
to do is attach R V H.
D.
So we'd go to actions,
attach PhD would navigate out.
Find R M B R V H.
D.
Mhm click open and it will attach the V H.
For us.
Yeah.
Once we've done that, mm hmm.
We can see R V H.
D.
Remember the drive number.
Mhm.
Now we're going to open
Active disk editor.
Mhm.
Once Active disk editor opens,
we're going to open a logical volume,
again the same logical volume we did for
our last walk through and
we're going to take a look at the fat file
table and see how our tool shows it to us.
Yes.
And I'm going to show you
an easier way to read it.
So we're going to select open disk.
Mhm.
We're going to select volumes because
we want to look at the volume,
not a physical disk.
And we are going to
select our fat 32 volume.
That is 200 MB in size.
My name is Dr S and
we're going to open it.
Okay.
Yeah.
Again when it opens by default this tool
will take you to the volume boot record.
Mhm.
We've already taken a look at this so
we know how many sectors
we have per cluster And
just in case it's four sectors per
cluster In 512 bytes per sector.
Yeah, now we're going to go
up to the navigate button and
we're going to navigate to Fat one and
we look at this,
it's a little hard to read But
we know each one of our entries
is four bytes in length.
So what we're going to do is we're
going to go to file mhm Preferences and
we're going to change our view in
bytes per line from 16 to 4 and
we're going to click OK once
that opens up it makes it
a little bit easier for
us to read our fat table.
The first entry at our fat table is
going to be the media descriptor.
Mhm.
And we have F a f f f f o f and
this usually indicates a fixed disk.
Our next entry, our next four byte
entry in our fat table is going to tell
us what version of fat we're looking
at and we can see we have ff ff ff ff.
So we know we're looking at Fat 32.
This next entry down here represents
cluster too because cluster
numbering starts at two out on the volume,
so cluster too,
Cluster two in this particular fat
table has an end of file marker in it.
That means that the file occupying
cluster to only needs one cluster.
We looked down,
we see our entry for cluster three.
This entry represents cluster three,
it's telling us its allocation status,
it's telling us it is allocated and
it doesn't point to another cluster.
So we know that the file and
cluster three only takes up one cluster.
We look at the Representation for
Cluster four.
We see the same thing,
we look at the entry for cluster five,
we see the same thing 6789 10, 11, 12.
Now, when we look at the entry for
cluster 13.
Mhm And we highlight it little indian.
Yeah, We can see that the entry for
cluster 13 these four bytes
represent close to 13 and
they have a pointer in them and
that pointer is telling us to go to,
we look at our data interpreter,
cluster 14, we look at the entry for
cluster 14 and
that's pointing us to cluster 15.
Mhm.
We could see it.
Our data interpreter or zero.
f is 15.
So we look at the representation
the entry in our Table for
cluster 15 And it points to cluster 16.
We look at the fat table entry for
cluster 16 right below and
it points us to cluster 17.
So we look at the entry for cluster 17 And
it points us to cluster 18.
And when we look at the four
Byte fat table entry For
cluster 18 we see an end of file marker.
Mm hmm.
The company people.
Yeah, if we continue down the table.
Mhm.
We can see that.
Yeah.
Mhm.
Cluster 19 also has an end
of file marker in it.
Cluster 20 has an end
Yeah.
We look at the Fat Table entry for
Claim 21.
We can see all zeros and
we know that all zeros
means that the clusters are marked
as available to be written to.
Mhm.
Know that.
To see a cluster in the middle of
the table marked is available to be
written to maybe an indication
that a file was deleted there.
Mhm.
If we look down in our fat table,
we see more into file markers and
we see more files that
are contiguous meaning that
the clusters are one
right after the other.
They're not fragmented but we're not
jumping from one cluster to another.
And that would be how we would
take a look at our fat table.
Yeah.